README.md, before:

[![Travis-CI Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/expersso/ameco.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/expersso/ameco) [![CRAN\_Status\_Badge](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/ameco)](http://cran.r-project.org/package=ameco) [![CRAN\_Logs\_Badge](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/grand-total/ameco)](http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/ameco)

AMECO Dataset
-------------

This package contains the entire [European Commission Annual macro-economic (AMECO) database](http://ec.europa.eu/economy_finance/db_indicators/ameco/index_en.htm) in a format amenable to analysis in R.

The AMECO database was last updated: 5 November 2015.

Install it from either CRAN or Github:

``` r
# From CRAN
install.packages("ameco")

# From Github
devtools::install_github("expersso/ameco")
```

Simple example
--------------

The dataset is in a clean, long format:

``` r
library(dplyr)
library(ameco)
head(ameco)
```

    ## Source: local data frame [6 x 8]
    ## 
    ##                code                           country   sub.chapter
    ##               (chr)                             (chr)         (chr)
    ## 1 EU28.1.0.0.0.NPTD                    European Union 01 Population
    ## 2 EU15.1.0.0.0.NPTD     European Union (15 countries) 01 Population
    ## 3 EA19.1.0.0.0.NPTD                         Euro area 01 Population
    ## 4 EA12.1.0.0.0.NPTD          Euro area (12 countries) 01 Population
    ## 5 DU15.1.0.0.0.NPTD EU15 (including D_W West-Germany) 01 Population
    ## 6 DA12.1.0.0.0.NPTD EA12 (including D_W West-Germany) 01 Population
    ## Variables not shown: title (chr), unit (chr), cntry (chr), year (dbl),
    ##   value (dbl)

Filtering with the `sub.chapter` variable allows you to easily find the variable of interest:

``` r
ameco %>% 
  dplyr::filter(sub.chapter == "01 Population") %>% 
  .$title %>% 
  unique()
```

    ## [1] "Total population (National accounts)"
    ## [2] "Total population"                    
    ## [3] "Population: 0 to 14 years"           
    ## [4] "Population: 15 to 64 years"          
    ## [5] "Population: 65 years and over"

Being interested in the total population of a few countries, we can easily subset the data and plot the results:

``` r
library(ggplot2)

ameco %>% 
  dplyr::filter(title == "Total population",
         year == 2015,
         cntry %in% c("USA", "JPN", "DEU", "FRA", "ESP", "ITA")) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = reorder(country, -value), y = value / 1000)) +
  geom_bar(stat = "identity") +
  theme_bw() +
  labs(x = NULL, y = "Population (millions)", title = "Total population")
```

![](example-1.png)

Disclaimer
----------

This package is not affiliated with, nor endorsed by, the European Commission. I aim to update it whenever the AMECO database is updated. If you ever see that it is out-of-date, don't hesitate to send a pull request and/or remind me to update it.

Commit message:

Change version, fix readme header

README.md, after:

AMECO Dataset
=============

[![Travis-CI Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/expersso/ameco.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/expersso/ameco) [![CRAN\_Status\_Badge](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/ameco)](http://cran.r-project.org/package=ameco) [![CRAN\_Logs\_Badge](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/grand-total/ameco)](http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/ameco)

This package contains the entire [European Commission Annual macro-economic (AMECO) database](http://ec.europa.eu/economy_finance/db_indicators/ameco/index_en.htm) in a format amenable to analysis in R.

The AMECO database was last updated: 5 November 2015.

Install it from either CRAN or Github:

``` r
# From CRAN
install.packages("ameco")

# From Github
devtools::install_github("expersso/ameco")
```

Simple example
--------------

The dataset is in a clean, long format:

``` r
library(dplyr)
```

    ## 
    ## Attaching package: 'dplyr'
    ## 
    ## The following objects are masked from 'package:stats':
    ## 
    ##     filter, lag
    ## 
    ## The following objects are masked from 'package:base':
    ## 
    ##     intersect, setdiff, setequal, union

``` r
library(ameco)
head(ameco)
```

    ## Source: local data frame [6 x 8]
    ## 
    ##                code                           country   sub.chapter
    ##               (chr)                             (chr)         (chr)
    ## 1 EU28.1.0.0.0.NPTD                    European Union 01 Population
    ## 2 EU15.1.0.0.0.NPTD     European Union (15 countries) 01 Population
    ## 3 EA19.1.0.0.0.NPTD                         Euro area 01 Population
    ## 4 EA12.1.0.0.0.NPTD          Euro area (12 countries) 01 Population
    ## 5 DU15.1.0.0.0.NPTD EU15 (including D_W West-Germany) 01 Population
    ## 6 DA12.1.0.0.0.NPTD EA12 (including D_W West-Germany) 01 Population
    ## Variables not shown: title (chr), unit (chr), cntry (chr), year (dbl),
    ##   value (dbl)

Filtering with the `sub.chapter` variable allows you to easily find the variable of interest:

``` r
ameco %>% 
  dplyr::filter(sub.chapter == "01 Population") %>% 
  .$title %>% 
  unique()
```

    ## [1] "Total population (National accounts)"
    ## [2] "Total population"                    
    ## [3] "Population: 0 to 14 years"           
    ## [4] "Population: 15 to 64 years"          
    ## [5] "Population: 65 years and over"

Being interested in the total population of a few countries, we can easily subset the data and plot the results:

``` r
library(ggplot2)
```

    ## Warning: package 'ggplot2' was built under R version 3.2.3

``` r
ameco %>% 
  dplyr::filter(title == "Total population",
         year == 2015,
         cntry %in% c("USA", "JPN", "DEU", "FRA", "ESP", "ITA")) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = reorder(country, -value), y = value / 1000)) +
  geom_bar(stat = "identity") +
  theme_bw() +
  labs(x = NULL, y = "Population (millions)", title = "Total population")
```

![](example-1.png)

Disclaimer
----------

This package is not affiliated with, nor endorsed by, the European Commission. I aim to update it whenever the AMECO database is updated. If you ever see that it is out-of-date, don't hesitate to send a pull request and/or remind me to update it.
